Another thing to cover is this
idea of browser priority.
This has kind of been established more and
more over the years, but
it's like most of our websites will have
more assets to download than the browser
could possibly do in parallel at one time.
And so in order to solve for
the problem of downloading unnecessary
things before necessary things.
There's this kind of standardized
rubric of what types of assets and
where they're called determines
their priority, right?
And so you could say, okay, well,
the document must be the highest priority,
cuz you can't do anything, it doesn't
make any sense to download CSS or
JavaScript before we have the HTML.
And then you could do all sorts of stuff,
right?
You could do, well,
fonts are those high, are they low?
What about images?
What about images below the fold,
all sorts of different options
that you kind of have here.
So the Dev tools provide you with
the priority that they were given,
and then we as developers have some APIs,
which I'll cover which allow us
to override the default priority.
But the important thing is that,
if you have more than, I can't remember if
it's like five or eight concurrent
downloads, which we all do.
Then the browser is gonna have to start
making some priority decisions here.
And so you can kind of see here different
screenshots of different Dev tools,
downloading different things, and
then on the right side is
the priority that they were given.
We have these APIs where we can say,
I know what's best for my app and
you can kind of go in and you can do
things like preloading and prefetching.
Have you heard of these APIs at all?
So these are kind of more
advanced APIs where you're
communicating with the browser to help
tell it, which things are high priority or
which things are low priority.
The example I always give is,
let's say you have some Google font, and
when you refresh your website
it loads in the fallback.
And then it flickers and you see the
Google font come in on top, and to you,
that's super unacceptable.
And so one thing that you can do is that,
you can preload that Google font by
just giving it an HTML attribute.
So you would do like the link to the font,
and then it's preload, right?
And by preload, it's saying, okay, this
should be done at the highest priority,
and it can be done during the same
time the document's coming in.
So you can really change
the way that your app renders,
where you can see here before
preload the font there,
which is that one where the arrow is
pointing, just came at its organic spot.
So the HTML 1 and the CSS 1,
eventually it hits the font and it's cool,
I'll download it.
You can say no, no, no, this font is vital
for the experience of my application,
I don't want that flash of content.
So you add the preload to it and you see
the font shifts all the way to the left,
everything else sticks
the same way that it was.
Similarly for prefetch,
this kinda gets into more subtle magic.
You can prefetch where you think
the next page is going to be,
so you can prefetch a whole page.
So you can think about this for search,
like Google's done some cool stuff here,
we do a Google search.
They get the results back, and then they
do some machine learning to be like, okay,
let's look at the results we gave him.
Which one do we think he's gonna click on?
And they can make a bet, right?
They'd be like,
that third one sounds really good to me.
So they can add this prefetch tag to that
third link and the browser will go out in
the background and fetch the entire thing
in anticipation of the user clicking it.
And then if I do click that one, boom,
I get this instant transition experience.
If I don't click that one,
it just falls back to the normal loading.
So I suppose the negative thing to do
here is that you can do unnecessary work,
right?
If I mark the third link as prefetch
you never click the third link,
then we fetch the whole page perhaps for
no reason.
The benefit is you can have these
magical feeling fast sites that are,
if you only have one next page.
You can imagine a slideshow presentation,
90% of the time I'm gonna hit next slide,
right?
You could prefetch that next slide and
then you could have like
this really amazing.
So these are simple HTML tags,
preload and prefetch,
you can add them anywhere you want.
But would caution that it's like that
if you opt to optimize everything,
you optimize nothing kind of concept,
right?
So if you just have ten links and you add
prefetch on all of them, the browser's
just gonna be out there working so
much in the background blocking things.
But they are really cool and
I hope to see more and
more of this stuff where application
developers are allowed to sort of
communicate some hints to the browser
about how your specific app works, yeah.
>> Male Student 1: Does it work
like the defer in Angular?
>> Jon Kuperman: This is a great question,
it's sort of defer.
Yeah, so it's a very similar thing in
the sense that it's those are import
attributes, but
it's the same world, right?
These are full document attributes.
Those are JavaScript import attributes,
the exact same thing.
They're sort of compiler hints or
whatever you wanna call it to say.
This is okay to come asynchronously or
in this case this needs to come early.
They're very much in the same kind
of wheelhouse of things, yeah.
And in TZ39 there's all sorts of new raw
javascript imports now can be deferred.
Or it's the same the kind of thing where
I think what we have by default works for
most people but it's really cool to
offer these more advanced things.
>> Male Student 2: I was just gonna to ask
around profiling in terms of the total
compute or
just the ability of a network connection.
Can you build a profile with
scenario where if a browser
is not utilizing resources
you can pretty much more?
>> Jon Kuperman: This is
a really good question.
Yeah, can you do more intelligent
things of waiting for
essentially an idle block and
then prefetching in there.
Yeah, there are some really
cool ways you can do that.
It gets a little bit tricky because
what you wanna be doing work but
giving the main thread a chance to breathe
periodically in order to receive things.
But yeah, you can do this all
with application land code.
So you could have some big amount of work,
and you kinda chunk it up.
And then in between chunks,
you could do a promise for zero seconds,
which will technically give control of
the main thread back to the application.
So you can do some quite fancy things
where you're not just blocking the whole
time, but you are constantly doing work.
So yeah, you can try to detect
idle blocks in your code and
fill that with time basically.
As long as you don't fill
it with things that take so
much time that you lose interactivity.
Yeah, you can get really
fancy with this stuff.
>> Male Student 3: Can preloading or
prefetching apply to something like
fetch request coming from an API?
>> Jon Kuperman: I think what you would
have to do there is you would want to try
to preload the JavaScript that
does the fetch request itself.
So I don't think you can't mark a fetch
request itself as being preloaded.
But you could put your fetch request
in a single file called API calls.js,
then you could preload that, right?
So you can blockingly,
you can kind of indirect control it.
And again, I think that please measure.
These let you get in all
these areas that sound good,
but you can quickly get into things
that do block the UI from loading.
Before the UI even load, you can quickly
get yourself into some bad territory.
So I would say, play with these but
then make sure you definitely measure that
you're not blocking the initial render
of your page, which is kind of vital.
>> Male Student 4: I'll just add to that,
since we're kinda focused on
the dev tools side of this.
You can really dive deeper into these
performance topics with Todd Gardner's web
performance fundamentals course.
>> Jon Kuperman: Yeah,
please do check that out.
Yeah, I think that hopefully
these give you that using the dev
tools to signal that there is that thing,
and then when you wanna go fix that thing.
Please check out that course,
that's awesome.
A little note too, on some of
the differences between HTTP/2 and HTTP/3.
I think we sort of had this thing
that even I was guilty of for
a while teaching that as we got to HTTP/3,
we wouldn't need bundling.
And there'd be no limit to the amount of
synchronous requests and all this stuff.
And I think in truth,
some of that has come true and
some of that has not come true.
As of right now,
we live in this bundled world.
We do have cool tools like frameworks and
compilers, provide tools
to break out chunks of your code, differ
certain things or preload certain things.
But we're definitely not at the point
where you can just serve all of your files
and hope that they get
figured out the right way.
So I think it's really cool
to be able to profile and
use these APIs where applicable.